So prettier people get confused about,
what's the overlap between prettier and
eslint?
When do I use one, and
when do I not use one?
And the first thing that I'll say is,
there is overlap.
There are some things that they both I do
and in general where they overlap you want
prettier to do it cuz prettier
is better and faster at it.
So you wanna like the mechanical
syntactical kind of thing of like how much
whitespace, where do I put commas?
Where do I put spaces?
All of that kind of
syntactical mechanical kind of
thing you wanna prettier to take care of.
Where you want to enforce like code
opinions and like structures of code and
like what the code is actually doing.
That's what you want ESLint
to take care of right?
So pretty well take care of like,
where do I put a hard return?
Where do I put a space?
ESLint is going to take care of like,
Am I doing accessibility correctly?
Am I using old API's?
Right, prettier doesn't take care of any
does not look at the code it doesn't
make any assertion that it's correct right
it just says like I'm making this space
to uniformly.
Es linters saying things more like I don't
want you to use this API.If you're using
this thing incorrectly, you declared
a variable that you never used,
like it's introspection your
code from that direction.
That make sense?
Okay and the reason I say
that there is some overlap,
you can have ESLint to tell you that
you're spacing your code incorrectly, but
just let prettier take care of that.
So let's go install ESLint then.
The first thing I would tell you is for
the least for the rest of the course here
I'm going to have you install
specific versions of things.
So I'm going to say like NPM
install ESLint at 8.8.0 you
might ask why don't I just
want the latest thing?
In general yes,
you do want the latest thing.
And in particular,
if I'm working on something at home,
you'll always want the latest
patch at the very least, right?
And hopefully the latest miner and so
I have people installs very
specific versions of things here.
So I can guarantee those versions
all work together, right?
Cuz it never leaves stuff, drifts,
and falls apart and things like that.
So for the sake of this course,
please follow along with
the versions that I'm installing.
And then feel free to go try and
install the latest version and
see what breaks, right?
In general, I've been teaching
these tools for years and
the drift here isn't substantial,
except on React Router.
We'll get into that later.
So all right,
we're gonna say npm install -D and
we're gonna do eslint- or
sorry @8.8.0.
Also feel free to just
copy these from the course
notes if you don't feel
like typing everything out,
eslint-config-prettier@8.3.0.
Okay you can also shorten
install to i by the way if
you're unaware of that I'm
sure I will eventually
start doing that because
the fingers get tired.
It's the dumbest thing I've ever said.
[LAUGH] That's a pretty low bar to anyway.
So install those two things.
You should see here that you got
eslint and eslint config prettier.
You'll see this little circumflex,
whatever you want to call those ,what are
they called Flex is the name of the accent
I don't know what these are called,.
Anyway the whatever shift six
gives you on an American keyboard,
that just means install the latest
patch of this so like if 8.3.0 and
I just ran like NPM install on this
just cold with no node modules.
It's like 8.3 .1 was available,
it would grab that, right?
That's what this means.
If I take this out and save it,
which that's how it looks
in the course directory.
It means install exactly this don't
install anything else if this fails and
fail it, all right.
This just means give me the latest patch,
which is 99 times what you want but
just be aware of the case.
When you're going out to production, you
wanna actually install exactly what's in
your package JSON because
that's what got tested, right?
Which is what package locks are for.
Like, again, we're not gonna
talk too much about that but
that's in general what those are.
Yeah?
>> Have you ever ran into conflicts
where ESLint tells you one thing and
then prettier another?
>> Yes.
So I definitely have run into those kinds
of conflicts before I'm going to show you
how to make sure that that never happens.
And in those cases,
go with what prettier says over ESLint, so
you can leave the circumflex in,
that's fine.
I'm just telling you that's why it
is that way inside of the project.
There's other things in here.
Like I think you can put
like things like latest.
There's a bunch of things that you can
do the magic you can do inside of your
package, JSON the So that way,
we're not gonna worry about it.
So I want you to create a file
now called new file here root of
the directory not inside of
the source directory.eslintrc.json.
The reason why you have to put JSON here
at the end is there's a bunch of ways
to configure your site.
You can do it with like
an actual .JavaScript files,
you can actually like run code.
I think you can do with YAML.
I don't know why you'd wanna do that,
but you could.
Let's do JSON cuz that's pretty easy.
Okay, so make an object.
We gotta configure this one a little bit.
Okay, So
the first thing went to put his extends,
this is gonna be an array and
we're gonna give
it a eslint: recommended and
then prettier.
So in general, the extends order is
not going to be very important to us,
except I think I'm gonna dwell on this for
a second to make sure that we all
get this prettier must come last
Prettier must come last pretty much
come last pretty much come last.
Okay, we got it.
[LAUGH] I just say that because
someone's not going to do it and
it'd be like why is this so
because prettier came last.
So this prettier config and
if you remember we installed it here it
refers to this eslint config prettier.
That's what the extents here means.
The only thing this config does
is it shuts off other configs,
it doesn't add any new
rules to our ESLint,
all it does is it shuts off
rules from other conflicts.
Which basically says hey, don't check for
whitespace, don't check for commas,
don't check for semicolons,
I got all that.
Okay, so that's why pretty has come last.
ESLint recommended is just very solid,
unopinionated just objectively,
right and wrong kind of rules, right?
So for example, you should not just
have a variable that you declare and
then never use, right?
That's just a bad idea and so
the ESLint tool, recommended,
catches those kind of problems.
They're just things that
you always wanna do but
no one's gonna argue with
you in a meeting about it.
I don't know, I've had some pretty
opinionated coworkers and no one's yet
has gotten mad at this one, right.
So that's what ESLint recommended is and
that's all we're gonna do for this class.
I've been all over the map in terms
of all the configs I've had for
this class I taught everything from
standard to the to the Airbnb ones and
boast standard has some
strong opinions on it.
But Airbnb is draconian in terms of how
much styling stuff that it enforces
right it's things have to be like
alphabetized and things that I hated it.
So I went around for this roller
coaster of opinions on the matter of,
I want all of my code to look like
it was written by the same person.
I'm sure you've all heard that before,
right?
And now I think that's a very bad idea
because right now we're getting into
Brian's philosophy of developer tools.
My philosophy of developer tools
is developers are very smart and
they have some idea in their brain that
they're trying to translate from amorphous
concept to code on a page, right?
Every time that my dev tool yells at them,
it's like you're doing it the wrong way.
We're introducing artificial friction
to the process in terms of like,
they had an idea.
They were translating into code and
now we're making them stop
to do something else, right?
That makes them go slower and
probably maybe write a little
bit worse code because not as a pure
expression of what they were trying to do.
So be very deliberate in terms of what
kind of friction you introduce into that
process.
So for example if they're going
to make accessibility bugs yes
we should stop them to make them slow down
and go fix those accessibility bugs right.
If they're going to do some that's going
to cause them bugs later it's better than
to fix it now than to try and
debug it later and find it out.
But if I'm telling them
to alphabetize something,
I can go get lost because that's
just not a good idea, right?
It's just not helpful, no one cares
that it's alphabetized, right, so
let's not make developers slow down for
that.
Okay, rant over, I'm sorry, I feel good
about myself though so anyway, that's
why we're doing the like the very bare
minimum set of rules here is because that.
We're trying to introduce the bare
minimum of like helping people be
productive without slowing
them down too much.
So plugins will do some plugins later But
for now,
it will do that'll just be an empty array.
Plugins is like extending next
the what ESLint can do and
read and we'll have to go fix
this here in a little bit but for
now we don't have anything we need
parser options you have to tell it some.
So like for example what version of
the features we'll do that here in a sec.
We want ecma version and we're going
to be doing 2022 which is just saying,
like, this is the ES6 that we're using
right the version of JavaScript.
We're saying we're using the most
latest version of JavaScript.
Source Type we're gonna be writing module.
You can write common Jas here
ESlint does that just fine.
JSX ECMA features is basically like what
extensions of it we're gonna be writing
we're gonna be writing jsx so you can
put true there inside of ecmaFeatures.
Okay underneath that we have to tell
it what environment we're working in.
So es6 true this is like,
allow things like import for
example, right?
Like those kinds of features are reserved
words allow things like map and
weak map and weak set and
things like that.
We're going to be working in the browser.
So this is like allow things like
document allow things like window,
allow things like fetch.
And then we'll be working in node
this is allow things like process and
other kind of global variables
specific to nodeJS Okay,
this is like the most bare
bones projects that you
would be working with for
React kinda set up here.
Anyone's gonna come in here and
how many you standard JS, so
help me God was bad you just kidding.
I have no power to do that.
So let's try it.
We're gonna say mpxeslintsourceapp.js and
you can see here it's
got a bunch of errors.
No.
So, if you go look at our
app.js you can see here and
now my editor here is very upset
at all my react calls, why?
We can see here the no-undef
rule here is happening and
if I mouse over this as
a React is not defined.
Doesn't know where React is coming from.
React is coming from here right from the
script tag so it actually is correct but
ESLint is like hey you're
calling to something and
I don't know what it is so
I'm gonna flag an error until you fix it.
We will fix it here in a second, I'm
just gonna show you if that's the case,
you do need to do it that way.
You can actually put a special comment up
here at the top that says global React and
ReactDOM.
And now if I save this and if I run this
again notice that it's fine it's like
okay no I figured it out but we're not
going to do that you can delete that.
This is the kind of things like I was
telling like it catches like these things
like, you should not be trying to access
variables that don't exist, right?
That's the kind of rules that ESLint
recommended has inside of it.
So some of you might be saying, well,
how do I see that red underline there?
I don't see that yet you have to
install the VS code extension for
it which is this one.
It's the official Microsoft
one is called ESLint.
It's kind of finicky sometimes and
it throws out some weird errors.
So if you see that,
in general I just reload it and or
just ignore them, but that's what it is.
That's what causes it.
So don't worry about the errors for
the moment we will fix them here in a bit.
It's not worth fixing right now.
Okay, I want you to go
to your package.json and
I want you to leave or
create another entry here.
This one is going to be called lint and
we're just going to say eslint,
you can even copy and
paste this little snippet right here
because we want the same thing.
And then I always put --quiet
because it's kind of noisy and
quiet we'll just keep it to like
the bare minimum stuff that's broken.
Another reason that I always put
these things in here when I put in
prettier eslint is now I
can run all this stuff in,
like GitHub actions right or
CI/CD kind of situations.
Because if ESLint find something,
it'll fail and
prettier has an option
I gotta remember MPX.
Prettier --help that's check,
I think is what it might be called.
There's a thing that you can pass
with the bit that's basically like,
I'm checking I'm actually
trying to format.
Yeah, it is --check.
So, then you could put in something
we'll just do right now because why not?
Format:check so
instead of dash dash right you put
--check this is what I would
run in like GitHub actions and
this would fail if it modified anything,
right?
It's like you found something
that was done so therefore
someone did not run prettier before they
check this in therefore I failed or built.
It's kinda like being defensive
with your code, right?
Because you want everyone to run
prettier before it gets checked in.
One less thing with lint like you can see
here this actually if you go to problems
here in VS code it'll show you
all the ESLint codes there.
Are things that are broken
at the moment just nice.
One thing I was gonna show you
with ESLint is you can run it so
if I do NPM run was it lint.You can put
dash, dash, so this is an NPM thing.
If I want to pass things on to the command
that I'm running so I want to pass it into
ESLint and not to NPM you put the dash,
dash and then anything after that.
The dash dash gets passed into ESLint and
not to NPM.
Otherwise if I do like -- fix
here it'll think NPM is like
I don't have a fix command, right?
You want to pass it into ESLint
that's the dash dash does.
That's why a dash dash
space dash dash fix.
Sometimes ESLint can just
automatically fix things for you.
And I'm struggling to think of
one off the top of my head,
like it could fix white space for
you if you allowed it to.
And if you saying like, hey, if you have
something that can just fix this for
me, do it.
And that's kind of a nice
feature is sometimes,
then the ascent can just
solve problems for.
But it's only like half of
the problems can consult for a bunch
of it just says like this is broken I
don't know how to fix it to your problem.
You can do --debug if you're if you
need more information at ESLint
you can see here it's a very verbose
of what it'll throw out at you, but
that can be useful sometimes.
Alternatives to ESLint there's JSLint
which never use please never use.
It's out of date and it's opinionated and
just not a good way don't even feel
bad saying that just don't use it.
And then there's JSHint, which is much
more forgivable, it's very opinionated but
they're not bad opinions.
It's just not configurable.
Whereas something like code styles, you
need some configurability to it as someone
that does not like configuring things.
This one actually is very
useful to be configurable.
Because this filter project is very
different than a React project
for example.
And those just need wildly different rules
ESLint can cover both of those JSHint
covers no neither of them.
But that's it ESLint has far and
above taken over the ecosystem.
It's a open JS Foundation project.
Now, it's that popular,
it's an essential part of the ecosystem.
So just use the ESLint.
All right, cool.
Any questions about linting, formatting,
eslint, anything like that?
>> That TSLint is deprecated, right?
>> Correct.
So TSLint is for TypeScript,
intermediate react we actually go and
how to set up ESLint for TypeScript.
So check out intermediate react v4 for
that.